Customer engagement matters because it helps you build successful and sustainable relationships with your target audience. Whether you’re a budding entrepreneur or a seasoned expert, prioritizing customer engagement will help you attract customers, boost brand loyalty and drive business growth. In this comprehensive guide, we’ll walk you through what customer engagement is, share its benefits for businesses and delve into the latest strategies you need to know.


What Is Customer Engagement?
Customer engagement involves building relationships with customers at every touch point. It involves understanding customer needs, preferences and pain points. It’s about tailoring brand-related experiences to meet and exceed those expectations.
The engagement process begins when a potential customer becomes aware of a brand or product—and extends beyond the post-purchase stage. Not only does it help with acquiring new customers, but it is also meant to help nurture and retain existing ones.
The ultimate goal of customer engagement is to build lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with customers, leading to an increased lifetime value for the brand.
Why Customer Engagement Is Important
Customer engagement is crucial for businesses seeking solid, long-term relationships with their audience.
A study by Salesforce found 80% of customers believe experiences provided by a company are as meaningful as their products and services. In other words, a brand’s experience has a big impact on consumers’ decision-making process.
Before engaging with customers, identify your goals for every interaction. Some goals you should pursue include customer loyalty, increased retention, positive brand perception, higher revenue and increased personalization.
From there, look at the data to identify the metrics correlated with achieving a specific goal. Does personalization increase customer retention? Do referral campaigns help you attract loyal customers who make repeat purchases?
Instead of a typical brand-related interaction, authentic customer engagement deals with building solid and long-term relationships. Engaged customers are more likely to be loyal, which leads to increased customer retention and positive brand perception.
Having more loyal consumers also gives businesses a competitive advantage during challenging times. Your most loyal brand advocates are likely to keep buying your products, which contributes to your business’ stability.
Customer Engagement vs. Customer Experience vs. CRM
Customer engagement, customer experience and customer relationship management (CRM) are three interconnected concepts essential to building successful customer relationships. Here are the differences between these central concepts.
Customer Engagement vs. Customer Experience
The customer experience (CX) encompasses a customer’s perception based on brand-related interactions, from seeing a sponsored ad to receiving their package in the mail. Good CX entails delivering consistent and positive interactions at every customer journey stage. It involves understanding customer needs, optimizing processes and ensuring every touchpoint is designed to exceed expectations.
In contrast, customer engagement refers to the emotional connection between a customer and a brand. It is about creating meaningful experiences that lead to increased loyalty and advocacy.
Customer Engagement vs. CRM
CRM refers to solutions that allow businesses to manage customer interactions, data and relationships. It entails using software to monitor customer information, communications and sales activities.
The main goal of a CRM is to improve operational efficiency and enhance customer relationships. The ideal solution can centralize customer data and give organizations a comprehensive overview of their tasks and processes. Furthermore, it provides valuable insights into customer behavior so businesses can make data-driven decisions.
In contrast, customer engagement fosters loyalty through meaningful interactions. While the former focuses on creating personalized experiences​​—CRM focuses on data management, analysis and optimization to improve business operations.
Customer Engagement Strategies
How to build customer engagement? Here are some strategies to help your business foster emotional connections and build long-lasting relationships with your target audience.
Share Your Company’s Vision and Mission Statement
Sharing your company’s vision and mission statement demonstrates transparency and authenticity. People appreciate businesses that are open about their core values and long-term objectives. If they see a clear and genuine purpose behind a brand, they are more likely to trust and connect with it.
An example of a company with a strong vision and mission statement is Google:
Vision statement: To access the world’s information in one click
Mission statement: To organize the world’s information and make it universally accessible and helpful
Google’s vision conveys its commitment to simplify the process of finding information. Meanwhile, the mission statement reflects its dedication to creating user-friendly products and services that empower individuals with knowledge and insights.
Personalize Interactions
Personalizing your brand’s journey makes it easier for customers to find products that align with their needs.
For example, a news organization can send a personalized email newsletter to get recipients to read more. Likewise, an ecommerce store can offer customized product recommendations based on browsing and purchase history.
Having more personalizing interactions shows that you understand and care about your shoppers’ needs, leading to increased retention over time. More importantly, it helps set your brand apart in a competitive market.
Utilize Social Media
Since many customers communicate with brands through social media, it’s an ideal platform to foster emotional connections. To implement this strategy effectively, understand your target audience’s preferences, interests and online behaviors. Use this knowledge to tailor your content and messaging to resonate with them.
For example, Chanel’s audience caters to affluent women who love fashion. Its Instagram posts feature beautiful and elegant-looking females clad in Chanel products.


Beyond the basics, there are also many tactics you can use to engage with consumers on social media. Organize contests or giveaways to encourage participation. You can even conduct polls and surveys to gather feedback from your audience.
Be An Active Listener
Businesses that actively listen convey their genuine interest in their customers’ needs. They value the opinions and voices of their consumers. When customers feel heard and understood, they are likely to trust the brand.
In the same way, it’s also important to pay attention to issues or complaints. Resolving conflicts immediately proves that the business cares about its customers, which in turn reinforces their confidence in the brand.
Develop a Strong Brand Voice
A strong brand voice helps your business create a memorable identity that resonates with your target audience.
To get started, define your brand persona. Determine the characteristics, tone and language that best represent your brand. Are you formal or casual? Playful or serious? Understanding your brand personality will serve as a guide for your campaigns and promotions.
One example of a company with a good brand voice is Nike. The brand uses motivational messages to encourage people to push their limits, overcome challenges and “Just Do It.”
Start a Customer Loyalty Program
Building a customer loyalty program can be a highly effective way to retain existing customers.
A good loyalty program offers valuable rewards to customers. Rewards can include discounts, free products or services, exclusive event access, early product launches or personalized offers. It would help if you also defined how customers can earn and redeem rewards. Will your program’s structure be points-based, tiered or based on customer spending?
One excellent example of a customer loyalty program is Starbucks Rewards. The points-based rewards system allows customers to earn stars for each purchase. The number of stars rated depends on the amount spent.
Customer Engagement Metrics
Are you looking to measure customer engagement? Here are some metrics to keep in mind.
Customer Satisfaction (CSAT)
Customer satisfaction measures customers’ contentment with a specific interaction, product or service. It is usually measured through Net Promoter Score (NPS) surveys or CSAT surveys that ask customers, “How satisfied are you with this product or service?”
Social Media Metrics
How active is your audience on social media platforms? The answer lies in likes, shares, reach, engagement rate or follower growth rate.
Sales and Repeat Purchases
Sales and repeat purchases strongly indicate that your brand resonates with customers. More repeat customers means strong customer engagement and loyalty. While purchases can indicate customer engagement—you should also consider other metrics. If your business has a lot of first-time customers but a few loyal ones, then engagement may need work.
Feedback and Reviews
Feedback and online reviews show people’s thoughts about your brand. Even negative feedback communicates that customers care about the brand’s improvement and success. They are engaged enough to suggest how the brand can enhance its offerings.
Subscriber Count
Naturally, a high subscriber count indicates a broader reach. Unlike a visitor, a subscriber is willing to maintain a long-term relationship with the brand, so they sign up to receive content and updates over an extended period. Beyond the subscriber count, analyzing other engagement metrics is important because engagement quality matters too.
Customer Effort Score (CES)
CES measures the ease of a customer’s experience with a specific interaction, product or service. It assesses how effortless it was for customers to achieve their goals.
How hard does it take for customers to resolve their issues or get answers from your brand? CES is typically measured by asking, “On a scale of 1 to 7, how much effort did you exert to get support agents to handle your request?”
Customer Loyalty
Loyal customers make repeat purchases and recommend your brand among their peers. Higher levels of customer engagement are often associated with greater customer loyalty. When customers actively engage with a brand, they are likely to form an emotional connection and develop a sense of loyalty.
CRM Partners


monday CRM
site
Examples of Customer Engagement
Here are some brands with successful customer engagement initiatives.
Airbnb
Airbnb’s strategy revolves around personalized recommendations and building online communities. The brand’s app offers personalized travel destinations to users based on their preferences and past bookings.
To keep hosts engaged, Airbnb manages 600 Facebook groups that serve as online hubs for its Host Club program. Here, members can get feedback on their listings and advice from more experienced hosts about cleaning services and local rules.


Sephora
Sephora’s Beauty Insiders loyalty program lets members earn points for every dollar spent on purchases at Sephora stores. The number of points earned depends on the membership tier: Insider, VIB (Very Important Beauty Insider) or Rouge. Points can be redeemed for rewards, such as deluxe samples, beauty products and exclusive experiences.
Beyond its loyalty program, Sephora’s app has augmented reality and virtual try-on features that offer customers an immersive shopping experience.
GoPro
GoPro encourages customers to post user-generated content online. As a result, content creators share action-packed videos and photos while the company highlights some of the best content on its online channels. Its approach helps foster a strong sense of community and brand loyalty among sports enthusiasts.


LEGO
LEGO engages its customers through user-generated content and community involvement. Users can submit their own LEGO set designs in the LEGO Ideas platform. If a proposal receives enough support, it may become an official LEGO product. By involving customers in the product development process, the brand encourages creativity and fosters a sense of community.


Bottom Line
Customer engagement remains a critical aspect of business success and growth. Brands that excel will go beyond transactional interactions. Instead, they’ll be able to embrace emotional connections and create a sense of community around their products and services.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What are the four levels of customer engagement?
The four levels of customer engagement are: first experience, building the relationship, loyalty and advocacy. In the first stage, customers experience the brand for the first time, so they have limited emotional attachment to it. From there, those who continuously engage with the brand could invest more in the relationship and become loyal brand advocates.
What are the three pillars of customer engagement?
The three pillars of customer engagement are people, platform and process. Having the right people on your team is critical to addressing your customer’s needs. From there, it’s important to choose the right platform to manage your customer base and implement agile processes to make work more efficient.
What four steps will help you engage with customers?
The four steps to customer engagement are understanding your customers, personalizing interactions, providing exceptional customer service and getting customers involved. Knowing your customers and personalizing your experiences will allow your brand to tailor its approach based on their needs. It’s also essential to provide excellent service and get them involved in our brand’s process to create products that align with their interests.
What are the most import metrics to consider related to customers?
When measuring customer engagement, some of the most important ones to consider include CSAT, social media, sales and repeat purchases, feedback and reviews, subscriber count, CES and customer loyalty.


