Getting a new car is fun. Shopping for a new car can be something else entirely. Even the most seasoned negotiators or frequent car buyers can find the experience stressful because even a small mistake can cost you money for years. If you’re planning to shop for a vehicle in the near future, get comfortable. We’ve got tons of tips for dealing with a dealership, whether you’re planning to buy or lease your next vehicle.

KEY TAKEAWAYS
Be knowledgeable — do your research at home first
Focus on the bottom line — the sale price of the car
Keep emotion out of it — it’s business, not personal
Buying a new car is a business deal first and foremost, so preparation is key to maintaining the right mindset. Haggling may be largely a lost art, but buying a new car is one of the few experiences in which it’s certainly acceptable, if not expected, to negotiate. The following tips will guide you through the dos and don’ts of the dealership experience.

Do: Thoroughly Research Your Purchase
With the amount of data available, consumers are better informed than ever. Websites, such as U.S. News Best Cars, give consumers more information than they’ve ever had about the features and prices of every vehicle and option available. Not only can you find pricing and feature data, but you can also explore safety and reliability ratings.

Our new car rankings, for example, allow consumers to see how new cars compare to others in the class based on a variety of factors, ranging from performance to reliability.

The internet is also an excellent source of information about the price that the dealer paid for the car, what other customers are paying for their vehicles and the value of any trade-in that you have.

Long before they step foot in a car dealership, smart buyers know the vehicle that they want and the price they should pay.

For shoppers looking for an electric vehicle or plug-in hybrid, it’s important to know if the vehicle qualifies for federal incentives and if those incentives are figured into the advertised price. It’s also worth keeping in mind that there may be vehicles that currently qualify that did not qualify in previous years, and vice versa.

Don't: Go to a Dealership Without Already Having a Financing Offer
One of the best ways to establish firm ground in a new car negotiation is by having your financing lined up before you shop. That’s because today’s car dealers make much of their revenue in their financing offices. They get a cut of any auto loan that they get buyers to accept. The offers they present may be a great deal, but they aren't always the best ones for customers – they’re the ones that make the dealership the most money.

Before you start visiting dealerships, get a pre-approved financing offer from your bank or credit union. That way, the dealer has to offer a better deal if they want to earn your business for this part of the transaction. Without an offer in place, the dealership will have no incentive to work hard to earn your new car financing business. Our auto loan interest rate page can tell you what to expect.

If you’re planning on buying an EV or PHEV and plan to install a home charging station, some banks may offer to roll the hardware and installation costs into your financing package. Make sure to run the numbers to see if it’s advantageous for you, compared to another method of payment.

Related: How to Finance a Car and Get a Car Loan
Get the Car Loan That's Right for You

Apply for financing today, and get up to four offers. Compare your options before visiting the dealership to make sure you get the best rate for you. It's free, quick, and easy.


Get Pre-Approved for a New Car Loan »

Get Pre-Approved for a Used Car Loan »

Get Pre-Approved for Refinancing »
Powered by

Do: Talk to Your Insurance Agent Before You Buy
Some vehicles cost much more to insure than others, so it’s worth a call to your insurance agent to run some numbers for the make and model you’re considering.

After you have purchased a new car is the wrong time to find out that it costs much more to insure than other vehicles. Also keep in mind that if you’re used to carrying minimum insurance on an older vehicle, you’ll be required to carry more (and more expensive) insurance coverage if you’re financing or leasing a vehicle.

Cheapest Car Insurance Companies
John DilmoreJan. 27, 2025

Car Insurance Placeholder Logo
Insurance companies offer many of the same products that you’ll be offered in the dealer’s finance office, such as GAP insurance and vehicle service contracts. Often, they’ll be much more affordable through your insurance company’s products, but you should always compare the specifics of each product to ensure its value.

Don’t: Start the Conversation by Saying You’ll Pay Cash
Paying cash for a car can be smart. However, telling the dealer that you plan to is a bad idea. Since much of the dealer’s revenue is made through financing, they’ll have less incentive to make you a deal if they know they won’t make any money on your car loan.

Never Say This to a Car Salesperson
line of cars
View All 17 Slides
Instead, negotiate the purchase price of the vehicle first, and tell them that you haven’t decided about financing. Besides, if they find you an awesome zero-percent financing deal, it might make sense to save your cash.

Do: Know Your Budget and Credit Score
It is critical to know how much you can afford every month, and how much you can pay up front. Without knowing those two numbers, you're going into the purchase blind, and you might end up with much more car than you can afford. That said (and we’ll remind you of this later), you also want to keep those numbers separate from the full transaction price of the car.

Buyers need to figure more than just the price of the car into their buying equation. Insurance, fuel and maintenance costs can add up, so be sure to check out those factors as part of your new car research process.

Knowing your credit score and what’s in your credit report can help you to get the best financing deal available. New car financing and cash back deals, like those found on our Best Car Deals pages, are typically only offered to buyers with top-tier credit, so take some time to correct any errors on your credit report and mend any credit blemishes if you want to get the best deal possible.

Compare Auto Loan Rates

View rates for new cars, used cars, or refinancing. Get four offers so you're prepared before you visit the dealer.


Compare Rates
Powered By

Don’t: Only Look at the Payment
This is exactly what we were just talking about. While you want to ensure you can afford your monthly payment, whatever it ends up being, you don’t want to let it become the focus of your negotiating. Many buyers focus only on the monthly payment, but that’s a bad way to buy a new car. Instead, look at the total cost, including interest payments and other fees over the life of the loan. It’s simply not worth saving that $20 per month if it means making payments for another year, especially since a longer loan term can increase the interest rate.

Focusing on the monthly payment can also entice buyers into add-ons that they don’t need or that are overpriced. The car salesperson might tell you that paint protectant is only an extra $8 per month, but over the life of a six-year loan, you’ll pay $576, plus interest.

The way to find out the total cost of a car is to multiply the monthly payment by the number of months in the loan, and then add the amount of your down payment, plus any taxes and fees.

Read: The Hidden Costs of Buying a Car
Do: Break Down the Transaction Into Components
Confusion is your worst enemy and the dealer's best pal. By merging the cost of the car, financing and the value of your trade-in into one, the salesperson can hide the fact that they are overcharging you for the vehicle, undervaluing your trade-in or charging more than you should be paying for financing.

Instead, insist on treating the car purchase, the financing and your trade-in as entirely separate points of negotiation. The salesperson will likely object to your strategy, but if you’re willing to sell your car privately instead of trading it in, you’ll have some leverage.

Don’t: Shop at Only One Dealer
Like any purchase, you should comparison shop before you lay down your hard-earned cash. Simply reminding the dealer that their nearby competitors have equal or better vehicles can make them work a little harder to earn your business. Fortunately, you don’t have to drive around, just use their website contacts to get offers.

Negotiating With a Car Dealer
A little preparation can go a long way when it's time to negotiate the price of a new car, either in person or online.
Kristen Hall-GeislerJan. 27, 2025

Car salesman with customer signing paperwork to buy used car
You should also use geography to your advantage when possible by looking at dealers where sales of the car you are considering might be weaker than others. For example, shop for hybrids in rural areas or pickups at urban dealerships.

Do: Take a Test Drive
Before you decide to buy, test drive the car that you are considering. You can learn more from 10 minutes behind the wheel than from hours of research. Pay particular attention to your comfort and how well you can see out of the vehicle after you’ve adjusted the seat to your liking.

It is crucial to drive the specific car that you are looking to buy, not just one that is similar. Not every vehicle coming from the factory is perfect, and a test drive plus a thorough inspection can help you identify problems at the dealership before they become problems in your garage.

Be careful if the dealer asks for your Social Security number before they allow you to take a test drive "for security reasons." Really, they just want the number so that they can pull your credit reports while you are out on the drive.

Don’t: Take the Car Home Until All of the Paperwork Is Done
Many times, a car dealer will offer you the chance to take the car home and complete the paperwork later. Don’t fall for it, for several reasons. First, you’re more likely to get attached to the car, and you won’t be able to negotiate with the impartiality that you need to get a good deal.

The second, and more sinister, possibility is that the dealer will tell you that they weren't able to get the financing offer that they promised "when the lender's office opened on Monday morning." Instead, they'll offer you a much more expensive deal. At that point, few consumers are willing to take the car back to the dealer and cancel the transaction. Instead, you think you are just stuck with the new offer (hint: you’re not). There are even names for the practice. They call it spotting or yo-yo financing.

You can eliminate the chance of that happening by not taking delivery of the car until every last document is signed.

Compare Auto Loan Rates

View rates for new cars, used cars, or refinancing. Get four offers so you're prepared before you visit the dealer.


Compare Rates
Powered By

Do: Bring a Calculator
To understand the deal and check it for accuracy, you must do your own math at the dealership. Leave the math up to the dealer, and you’ll likely find several other numbers thrown in that may confuse you.

Remember, the most important number is the total cost of the car, including all payments and fees.

Just pulling a calculator out of your bag and taking notes sends a signal to the salesperson that you are paying attention.

Don’t: Sign Paperwork That Isn’t What You Agreed To
If you see anything that is incorrect or that you don’t understand, do not sign the paperwork. It’s far easier to correct an error or misunderstanding before the paper is signed than to unwind a deal that has your approval on the signature line.

Be sure to compare the offer sheet to the invoice and make sure they match. If you have questions, be sure you receive an acceptable answer before you sign the documents.

Do: Be Prepared to Walk Away
A car buyer’s greatest power is their willingness to walk away from a deal that isn’t right. It’s also the dealer’s greatest fear. Surprisingly, most customers are afraid to get up and leave the table for fear of losing the time that they have already invested in the deal, or fear of embarrassment.

Unless you are looking at a car that is in such high demand that you won’t find it anywhere else, walking away is always preferable to getting stuck with a bad deal. With the increasing length of the average new car loan, a bad decision can haunt you for years to come.

Just showing the willingness to get up and leave is often a powerful enough message to get the dealership staff to take notice and make you a better offer.

Remember, your ultimate goal is to get a great deal on the car you want, while the dealer's job is to maximize profit on the sale (and there's nothing wrong with that, as long as they stay within legal and ethical standards).

Don’t: Be Pressured Into Buying Expensive Add-Ons
Beyond financing, dealers make a significant amount of their revenue through the sale of add-on products. Some might be valuable if purchased at the right price, but many come with high markups and are of dubious value or are available outside of the dealership at lower prices.

The time to make decisions about buying those products is not at the end of a long buying process when you just want to drive your new car home. Before you purchase items such as paint protection, key insurance or a vehicle service contract, go home and thoroughly research the product and alternatives. If the finance officer tells you that right now is your only opportunity to buy that extended warranty or other add-on, you should consider it a red flag to avoid the purchase.

14 Things You Should Never Buy at a Car Dealership

View All 18 Slides
Avoid the temptation to buy the add-ons because they only add a few dollars to each month’s payment. Multiply the added cost by the length of your loan, and you’ll find the real price of the product.

Do: Look for Deals
When the pace of sales isn’t up to expectations, or the manufacturer is trying to clear inventory off of their lots, automakers will offer incentives to increase sales. These new car deals are usually in the form of cash back offers, low-interest financing or a combination of both.

The journalists and researchers of U.S. News & World Report track the best of the deals, and you can find them on our new car deals page. If you are interested in leasing your next car, we also track the best lease offers on our lease deals page and help you learn more about leasing.

Don’t: Bring Your Kids Into the Finance Office
The last step in the car-buying process is usually a trip to the dealership’s finance office to sign the final paperwork. While it is critical to make sure your new ride is a good fit for your kids, in the finance office you’ll want to concentrate on the documents that you are signing, without any distractions.

Remember, making an error on the sales documents can cost you money for years.

Do: Check With Your Lender to Ensure Payment Is Made
If you are trading in a car with an outstanding loan balance and the dealership promises to pay off your old loan, check with your financial institution to ensure that happens within a reasonable time. You are ultimately responsible for payments and interest until the loan is paid off.

The dealer has an incentive to pay off your loan, as it is how they get clear title to your old car so that they can resell it, but it’s up to you to make sure that payoff doesn’t slip through the cracks.

Compare Auto Loan Rates
Get pre-qualified to save time and money. There are no fees, it's quick, free and easy.

Fill out a short and secure two minute offer form

Get matched with lenders and get up to 4 offers

Receive an online certificate or a check within 24 hours

Use your check to buy the car you want or use it to refinance your current loan


Compare Rates
Powered by

Don’t: Forget It Is Just a Business Transaction
Finally, buying a car can be an emotional experience, but emotions and excitement can get in the way of getting a great deal. Be friendly but firm, and don’t be the person that they want to gouge because you’re acting like a jerk.

Knowledge, friendliness, patience and your ability to walk away are your best tools in the car-buying process, and they can make the difference between getting a bad deal and an excellent one. Your confusion, impatience and lack of confidence can give professionally trained sales consultants the upper hand.
