
RussWilliams.net
1. "I'm Just Looking" / "I am NOT Buying Today" / "This is the FIRST place I Have Looked" / "I've Just Started My Research"
All of these are the same basic objection
Rebuttal #1
Yes Sir/Ma'am, I understand completely! I have discovered that many of my customers would
prefer to do some research, drive a few vehicles of interest, and gain some financial information like price, payments, and the value of their trade before they would even consider purchasing a vehicle. Does that sound like the way you like to do business? Now, I know my inventory better than anyone. Were we looking at cars, Sport Utility Vehicles, vans, or trucks?
Rebuttal #2
Certainly, Mr./Ms. Jones, I wouldn't have it any other way! Every journey begins with the first step. The good news is that you are half way there because you have made it out to the dealership to see what is available. I really appreciate you giving us the opportunity to earn your business. Now, I know my inventory very well. Were we looking at cars, Sport Utility Vehicles, vans, or trucks?
Rebuttal #3
I completely understand! The car buying process can be a daunting endeavor. We have a HUGE
lot. Follow me inside, I will have just a few questions and then I can bring the vehicles that fit your wants, needs and desires to you! (Turn and walk towards the showroom)
Rebuttal #4
Yes Sir/Ma'am, I completely understand! Most of my customers prefer to do some leg work,
compare a variety of vehicles and get some realistic prices so that they actually have some information to ponder. Then, return tomorrow or perhaps next week to really nail down a deal. Would you agree? I know my inventory better than anyone. What is the most important feature you want out of your next vehicle?
Rebuttal #5
Yes Sir/Ma'am, I understand completely! The selection of a vehicle is one of the largest purchases we have to deal with. Many folks take the spending of their hard earned cash way to flipantly. I hope you will allow me to assist you in this process. Perhaps I can even make it a little simpler? Follow me inside, I will have just a few questions and then I can bring the vehicles that fit your wants, needs and desires to you! (Turn and walk towards the showroom)
Rebuttal #6
That is GREAT Mr./Ms. Smith! I have been assisting people in the purchase of vehicle for over 25 years! I will be here tomorrow, next week and next year. Now, I know my inventory very well. Were we considering cars, Sport Utility Vehicles, vans, or trucks?
Rebuttal #7
Yes Sir/Ma'am, I understand completely! The LAST THING I would ask you to do today is buy a car. Perhaps I can even make it a little simpler? Follow me inside, I will have just a few questions and then I can bring the vehicles that fit your wants, needs and desires to you! (Turn and walk towards the showroom)
NOTE: A seed is actually planted here. Later in the process, once you have earned the right to ask for the sale, you can say "Remember when I said:
"The LAST THING I would ask you to do today is buy a car", Well...
2. What is your BEST price?
The rebuttal to this objection depends on where you are in the sales process.
Option #1, BEFORE the customer has landed on a vehicle
Rebuttal #1
I am SO GLAD you asked me that, Mr./Ms. Smith! We do things a little different here at Rolling Hills Auto Plaza. We do our best to make the shopping experience as enjoyable as possible. So, we have marked the prices clearly on ALL of our Pre-Owned vehicles. We believe in giving you a fair price up front so I don't have to go back and forth with my manager, multiple times, to get you the exact same price. Does that make sense?
Customer:"Does that mean the prices are non-negotiable?"

Depending on the vehicle, there may be some wiggle room, but if you are thinking thousands then purhaps we should look at another vehicle. Actually, some of our vehicles have been discounted so drastically they ARE non-negotiable. Our customers have told us that they simply do not like the "games" and haggling that other dealers play, especially when it comes to Used Cars. Did you notice that this car has BlueTooth and a touch screen?
Rebuttal #2
Certainly, Mr./Ms. Jones! Being confident that you have not overpaid for a vehicle is VERY important. I will tell you this, If I couldn't give you the absolute BEST DEAL on the vehicle of your choice I would NEVER expect you to buy it from me. Now, I know my inventory very well. Were we looking at cars, Sport Utility Vehicles, vans, or trucks?
Rebuttal #3
Yes Sir/Ma'am!, You deserve the BEST DEAL! However, I can tell that you have done this before and would like to buy a vehicle with the least amount of stress possible, am I correct? I will let you in on a little "car industry secret", the best way to get the VERY BEST DEAL possible is to first find the vehicle that is right for you. Once we do that, be be prepared to BUY THAT VEHICLE! My Sales Manager is much more apt to give you his very best deal if you are prepared to take advantage of it! Perhaps I can make it even simpler? Follow me inside, I will have just a few questions and then I can bring the vehicles that fit your wants, needs and desires to you! (Turn and walk towards the showroom)
Rebuttal #4
Yes Sir/Ma'am!, I WANT you to get the BEST possible deal! I have been selling vehicles for over 25 years and I depend on return and referred business! When I see you at the Gas Station or the Grocery Store, I want to be able to great you with an outstretched hand and a smile. Not be ducking behind the isle thinking "OH NO! There's that guy/gal that paid for my Hawaii Vacation!" What is the most important feature you want out of your next vehicle?
Option #2, AFTER the customer has landed on a vehicle
Rebuttal #1
I am sorry Mr./Ms. Smith, I really must apologize to you. I must not have been clear when I spoke to you about Market Pricing. We do things a little different here at Rolling Hills
Auto Plaza. We do our best to make the shopping experience as enjoyable as possible. So, we have marked the prices clearly on ALL of our Pre-Owned vehicles. We believe in giving you a fair price up front so I don't have to go back and forth with my manager, multiple times, to get you the exact same price. Does that make sense?
Customer:"Does that mean the prices are non-negotiable?"

Depending on the vehicle, there may be some wiggle room, but if you are thinking thousands then purhaps we should look at another vehicle. Actually, some of our vehicles have been discounted so drastically they ARE non-negotiable. Our customers have told us that they simply do not like the "games" and haggling that other dealers play, especially when it comes to Used Cars.
Customer: How do you decide what is a fair "Market Price"?

That is a great question! It starts online. We have a computer program that shows us what competitive vehicles are selling for based on condition, miles and options in our area. Then we look to see how long a vehicle has been here and once we gather all of that information, the computer tells us what a fair price would be for that vehicle.
Rebuttal #2
Absolutely Mr./Ms. Smith! But please let me ask you this: Other than price, is there anything else preventing you from buying this vehicle today?
The price question is often the STATED OBJECTION, however it quite possibly
may not be the REAL objection. The customer's response to this question will tell you whether you are actually at the PRICE stage or if there is more work to be done.
Rebuttal #3
Certainly, Mr./Ms. Jones! I am on your side, I want you to get the Best Deal Possible! Now, before I go to work on my Sales Manager, if we come to terms on the numbers, are you prepared to drive this vehicle home today?
Again, the price question is often the STATED OBJECTION, however it quite possibly may not be the REAL objection. The customer's response to this question will tell you whether you are actually at the PRICE stage or if there is more work to be done.
Rebuttal #4
Yes Sir/Ma'am! Being confident that you have not overpaid for a vehicle is VERY important. I will tell you this, If I couldn't give you the absolute BEST DEAL on this vehicle I would NEVER expect you to buy it from me. Now, assuming we come to terms, where is the first place you will be driving your new vehicle to show it off?
3. I Need To Speak With My Spouse
Rebuttal #1
Absolutely Mr./Ms. Smith! I know my wife would need to give the okay on such a purchase. Is she available? (if yes)Let's hop in the car and go show it to her RIGHT NOW! (if no) Alright Mr./Ms. Smith, other than him/her seeing the vehicle, is there ANYTHING ELSE that would prevent you from taking this car home today?
If there are other "things" you are not done. If there are no other "things", and you believe the person in front of you whole heartily supports the buying of the vehicle, BCA them in the car.
There are no other rebuttals here. If there is a spouse, they must be involved, one way or another.
4. I Didn't Bring My Trade
Rebuttal #1
Absolutely Mr./Ms. Smith! But please let me ask you this: Other than your trade-in's value, is there anything else preventing you from buying this vehicle today?
The "trade is not here" is often the STATED OBJECTION, however it quite possibly
may not be the REAL objection. The customer's response to this question will tell you whether your customer is actually ready to buy or if there is more work to be done. If the customer states that their "trade not being here" is absolutely the  ONLY thing stopping business at this point, then the response is: "GREAT!  Let's go get it!". If this is impossible (wife-son-daughter have it hours away, it is in the body shop getting painted, or any reason that makes it impossible to go get, then, work the deal
sight-unseen.
"What do you think your vehicle is worth? How did you get to that number? How many miles? Can we run a CarFax? Do you have maintenance records? When was the last time you purchased tires? On a scale of 1-10 how would you rate your car mechanically Cosmetically? Based upon the information YOU have provided to me, if we can come to terms on a number for your trade, are you ready to do business TODAY?"
Again, There are no other rebuttals here. Generally, we will HAVE to see the trade to finalize the deal.
5. I Saw It Cheaper Somewhere Else
Rebuttal #1
Normally this customer statement is a lie or defense mechanism. If it is determined to be such go to the "What is your BEST price" rebuttals. However, it is occasionally a legitimate objection, in which case:
WOW Mr./Ms. Smith, I can see that you have REALLY done your homework here. Nobody could accuse you of being impulsive! I cannot speak for the vehicles found on other lots or in other towns, I can only represent a vehicle that I have in inventory here, RIGHT NOW. The car business is very complicated. I think the first thing I would ask myself is, "is that other vehicle EXACTLY THE SAME as this vehicle, the one you have already told me you are ready to drive home if we can agree to terms?" Is it the same year, make and model? Is it the same trim level package Does it have exactly the same options? How many miles were on it? What did the CarFax look like? Who owned it before? How was it cared for? Was it fully serviced before they placed it on the lot? Has it been Certified? Was it the Color you want? (Finally) Why didn't you purchase that CHEAP vehicle there?
The answers to these questions will guide you as to how to proceed. Even in the very rare instance where a customer has found THE EXACT same vehicle that is proveably cheaper, there are plenty of other things to sell. Yourself, the dealership, our financing, the trade value, add-on fees, proximity, reputation, and convenience. These things have value! NEVER DROP YOUR PANTS and don't bad-mouth other retailers.
6. I don't want to test drive.
Often this objection is more a symptom of poor salesmanship. The salesman has not done a proper job of fact-finding and rapport building and has failed to do a  strong walk-around presentation. A demo drive is the natural and logical next step if the sales process has been followed. However, for the sake of this exercise we will assume we have that  rare 1% that has gone through the proces and still refuses to test drive the vehicle.
Rebuttal #1
I understand Mr./Ms. Smith, when you see a car that is NEW (is in this great of condition *used*), it is probably safe to assume that it will be in excellent mechanical condition. However, the automobile industry has advanced by leaps and bounds over the last few years. There are options on cars now that may surprise you and cannot properly be demonstrated on a parked car. Buckle that seat belt, I will get us rolling.
Rebuttal #2
I completely understand Mr./Ms. Smith. I have heard of people who feel the exact same way! They felt like there was nothing to gain by driving a vehicle they have not yet purchased. However, most of my customers have found that by actually driving the vehicle they get a better feel for the road and a greater understanding of new breaking systems, crash avoidance technology, back-up sensors and cameras as well as ergonomic and entertainment features like the telescoping steering column, adjustable pedals, satellite radio, and personal synchronization features that let you use electronics devices like your cell phone and iPod, hands-free, while driving down the road!
Rebuttal #3
I understand exactly how you feel Mr./Ms. Jones! I used to feel the same way. Let's look at it like a pair of shoes. I wear a size 11 shoe. I have worn a size 11 shoe for 30 years. When I go to the shoe store I always go to the size 11 rack because I know, I wear size 11 shoes! Once in a great while, however, I am in a hurry and I just buy a pair of size 11 shoes and run to the check out because I am in a hurry. It NEVER FAILS, if I do not TRY ON the shoes they hurt my feet so bad, I can never wear them! Do you try on your shoes before you purchase them? Alright then! I REFUSE to sell you a car that will hurt your feet! Buckle up that safety belt!
7. I need to check with my bank on rates.
Rebuttal #1
Absolutely Mr./Ms. Smith! In fact we may have YOUR Bank's Rates right here! Our Business Office has done an outstanding job of building relationships with both local and national banks. Sometimes they can actually get a better financial package that YOU CAN at the same bank you have done business with for years! So, WORST CASE SCENARIO, Our Business Office gets you an amazing finacial package and you somehow find a way to do better!
Rebuttal #2 Works for majority of customers with little to no cash down or are upside-down in a trade. I understand completely! Keep in mind however, banks normally require a 20% investment from their customers in order to approve a loan. Obviously Sir/Ma'am with us carrying over $2753.00 from your last automobile and no cash down, you are a long way from 20% down. The great thing about using our Business Office is that we deal in volume. This means that, because of our strong bank relationships, we can often give our customers very competitive financial packages and get the substantial down-payment requirements waved! So, if we can get your financing handled AND not require you to put more of your hard earned cash down, doesn't it make more sense to give us a shot?
Rebuttal #2 Works for the minority of customers with strong financial backgrounds, large down payments or good trade equity. I agree with you 100% Mr./Ms. Smith! You have handled your business dealings impeccably from the very first time I spoke with you. You did your research, did your comparisons and spoke with other dealers to insure you were getting a great deal on your vehicle! I would expect no less on the financial aspect of our dealings. Doesn't it make sense to do the same due diligence and see what our Business Office has to offer vs. your local bank?
Tags: russ, russwilliamsnet, williams, automotive, car, experienced, handling, negotiate, objection, professional

Top CompaniesSalesMarketingRecruitingAPIGrowthGo To MarketRevOps
Log in
Book a Demo or Start Free
Automate your entire outbound with ExactBuyer. From verified real-time data to personalized email generation, sequencing, and automated outreach.Sign UpBook a Demo
10 Effective Strategies for Overcoming Objections in the Sales Process
Table of Contents
IntroductionWhy overcoming objections is importantExamples of overcoming objections in the sales processSection 1: Building Rapport1. Active Listening2. Find Common Ground3. Show Empathy4. Use Mirroring Techniques5. Be Authentic6. Show ConfidenceSection 2: Active ListeningThe Importance of Active ListeningMethods for Practicing Active ListeningSection 3: Anticipating Common ObjectionsOutline:Section 4: Addressing Price Concerns1. Understand the Prospect's Budget and Needs2. Emphasize the Value and ROI3. Offer Flexible Pricing Options4. Provide Competitive Comparisons5. Use Negotiation TacticsSection 5: Highlighting Benefits and SolutionsOutline:Section 6: Handling Competitor ComparisonsTactics for Handling Competitor Comparisons:Section 7: Providing Social Proof1. What is Social Proof?2. The Power of Testimonials3. Showcasing Satisfied Customers4. Leveraging Metrics and Data5. Influencer Endorsements6. Customer Reviews and RatingsSection 8: Offering Flexible Options1. Understanding Different Needs and Requirements2. Customizing Solutions3. Offering Alternatives4. Demonstrating Value and ROI5. Building Trust and RelationshipsSection 9: Reassuring with Guarantees1. Addressing risk2. Demonstrating confidence in the product3. Building credibility4. Overcoming objections related to value5. Creating a competitive advantageSection 10: Closing with Confidence1. Understand the Customer's Needs2. Reiterate the Value Proposition3. Address Any Remaining Concerns4. Offer Incentives5. Propose a Clear Next Step6. Assume the SaleConclusionHow ExactBuyer Can Help You

Introduction

In the sales process, objections from potential customers are common. These objections can range from concerns about price, features, or competitors, to doubts about the effectiveness of the product or service. Overcoming these objections is crucial for sales success. This article will explore the importance of overcoming objections in the sales process and provide examples of effective strategies to address and resolve objections.

Why overcoming objections is important


Builds trust: When salespeople effectively address objections, it helps build trust with potential customers. By showing that you understand their concerns and have solutions, you demonstrate your credibility and commitment to meeting their needs.

Increases sales conversions: Overcoming objections can significantly increase the chances of closing a sale. By addressing any hesitations or doubts, you can alleviate customer concerns and provide the reassurance they need to move forward with the purchase.

Improves customer satisfaction: By proactively addressing objections, you can prevent potential post-purchase dissatisfaction. When customers feel heard and supported throughout the sales process, they are more likely to have a positive experience and become loyal advocates for your brand.

Examples of overcoming objections in the sales process

Here are some examples of effective strategies for overcoming objections in the sales process:


Anticipating objections: By thoroughly understanding your product or service and your target audience, you can anticipate common objections and proactively address them during the sales pitch. This preparation shows your professionalism and instills confidence in the potential customer.

Active listening and empathy: When a customer raises an objection, it is crucial to actively listen and empathize with their concerns. Repeat their objection back to them to ensure you fully understand their point of view. This demonstrates that you value their opinion and are genuinely interested in solving their problem.

Providing evidence and testimonials: Backing up your claims with evidence and testimonials from satisfied customers can be highly persuasive in overcoming objections. Sharing success stories and statistics relevant to the customer's concerns helps mitigate doubts and instill confidence in the product or service.

Offering alternative solutions: If the customer's objection is valid and cannot be fully resolved, offering alternative solutions can still lead to a successful sale. By presenting different options or modifications, you show flexibility and a willingness to work with the customer to find a mutually beneficial solution.

Addressing price objections: Price objections are common in sales. To overcome this objection, clearly communicate the value and benefits of your product or service. Emphasize how it can save money in the long run or provide a significant return on investment. Additionally, offering flexible payment options or discounts can help overcome price objections.

By implementing these strategies and tailoring them to specific customer objections, sales professionals can effectively address concerns and increase their chances of closing deals.

Section 1: Building Rapport

Building rapport with prospects is essential in the sales process as it helps establish a connection and build trust. When you have a positive rapport with your prospects, they are more likely to listen to your pitch, ask questions, and ultimately make a purchase. Here are some practical tips on how to establish a connection and build rapport with your prospects:

1. Active Listening

One of the most important aspects of building rapport is active listening. Pay attention to what your prospects are saying, and show genuine interest in their concerns, needs, and desires. This not only helps you understand their perspective better but also shows that you value their input.

2. Find Common Ground

Look for shared interests or experiences that can help create a connection with your prospects. Whether it's a hobby, a mutual acquaintance, or a similar background, finding common ground can help break the ice and establish rapport.

3. Show Empathy

Put yourself in your prospects' shoes and try to understand their challenges and pain points. Show empathy by acknowledging their concerns and offering solutions that address their specific needs. This displays your genuine care and fosters a sense of trust.

4. Use Mirroring Techniques

Mirroring is a technique where you subtly match your prospects' mannerisms, tone of voice, or body language. This can create a sense of familiarity and make the conversation feel more comfortable for your prospects.

5. Be Authentic

Authenticity is key when building rapport. Be genuine, honest, and transparent with your prospects. People appreciate authenticity and are more likely to trust someone who is open and sincere.

6. Show Confidence

Confidence is contagious. When you exude confidence in yourself, your product, and your ability to meet your prospects' needs, it inspires trust and builds rapport. However, be careful not to come across as arrogant or pushy.

By implementing these practical tips, you can effectively build rapport with your prospects and increase your chances of closing sales.

Section 2: Active Listening

Active listening plays a crucial role in understanding and addressing the objections raised by prospects during the sales process. By actively listening, sales professionals can gain valuable insights into the concerns and hesitations of potential buyers, allowing them to provide relevant solutions and overcome objections more effectively.

The Importance of Active Listening

1. Understand Prospect's Perspective:

Active listening enables salespeople to truly understand the perspective of their prospects. By attentively listening to their objections, concerns, and preferences, sales professionals can gain a deeper understanding of the prospect's needs and expectations. This understanding allows them to tailor their sales pitch and address objections more effectively.

2. Build Trust and Rapport:

Active listening helps build trust and rapport with prospects. When salespeople demonstrate genuine interest in understanding the prospect's objections, it creates a positive impression, leading to stronger relationships. By actively listening, sales professionals show that they value the prospect's opinions and are committed to finding solutions that meet their specific needs.

3. Uncover Hidden Objections:

Not all objections raised by prospects are explicitly stated. Sometimes, objections can be hidden behind certain statements or questions. Active listening allows sales professionals to pick up on subtle cues and uncover any underlying objections that may not be immediately apparent. By addressing these hidden objections, salespeople can remove barriers and move closer to closing the sale.

Methods for Practicing Active Listening

1. Give Undivided Attention:

When engaging with prospects, eliminate distractions and give them your full attention. Maintain eye contact, nod, and provide verbal cues to show your attentiveness. Avoid interrupting and allow the prospect to express their concerns fully before responding.

2. Ask Open-Ended Questions:

To encourage prospects to share their objections, ask open-ended questions that require more than a simple "yes" or "no" response. These questions allow prospects to elaborate on their concerns and provide valuable insights that can help you address their objections effectively.

3. Reflect and Summarize:

Throughout the conversation, reflect on what the prospect is saying and summarize their objections to demonstrate your understanding. This not only shows that you are actively listening but also provides an opportunity for the prospect to confirm or clarify their concerns before moving forward.

4. Empathize and Validate:

When prospects express their objections, empathize with their viewpoint and validate their concerns. Let them know that their objections are important and that you are committed to finding a solution that addresses their specific needs. This helps build trust and rapport, increasing the chances of overcoming objections.

Overall, active listening is a vital skill in the sales process. It allows sales professionals to gain a deeper understanding of the prospect's objections, build trust and rapport, and uncover hidden objections. By incorporating active listening techniques into their sales approach, salespeople can effectively address objections and increase their chances of closing the sale.

Section 3: Anticipating Common Objections

In the sales process, it is common for potential customers to have objections or concerns that may prevent them from making a purchase. As a salesperson, it is crucial to anticipate these objections and be prepared with effective responses. This section provides insights on identifying and preparing for common objections in the sales process.

Outline:


Understanding the importance of identifying objections

Researching common objections in your industry

Developing strategies to overcome objections

Effective communication techniques for addressing objections

Handling objections related to pricing

Addressing objections based on product features or functionality

Overcoming objections related to competitor comparisons

Providing case studies and testimonials to address objections

Using objection handling as an opportunity to build trust and rapport

Role-playing exercises for practicing objection handling

By understanding and preparing for common objections, salespeople can be more effective in addressing customer concerns and ultimately closing more deals. This section will provide valuable insights and strategies to help sales professionals overcome objections in the sales process.

Section 4: Addressing Price Concerns

Addressing price objections is a crucial step in the sales process. When potential customers express concerns about the cost of your product or service, it is essential to have effective strategies in place to overcome these objections and demonstrate the value they will receive. In this section, we will discuss various approaches you can take to address price concerns and convince your prospects of the worth of your offering.

1. Understand the Prospect's Budget and Needs

The first step in addressing price concerns is to have a clear understanding of your prospect's budget and needs. By asking targeted questions and actively listening, you can gain insights into their financial limitations and the features or benefits they value the most. This information will help you tailor your pitch and highlight the aspects of your product or service that align with their specific requirements.

2. Emphasize the Value and ROI

During price discussions, it's important to shift the focus from the cost to the value and return on investment (ROI) that your offering provides. Clearly articulate how your product or service solves their pain points or helps achieve their goals. Highlight the long-term benefits and cost savings that they can expect to see by choosing your solution. Use case studies, testimonials, and data to support your claims and demonstrate the value proposition.

3. Offer Flexible Pricing Options

To address price objections, consider providing flexible pricing options to accommodate different budget constraints. This could include tiered pricing plans, subscription-based models, or customizable packages. By offering choices, you allow prospects to select an option that fits within their budget while still receiving the core benefits of your product or service. Present these options during the pricing discussion and explain how each option can meet their specific needs.

4. Provide Competitive Comparisons

If your prospects compare your pricing to that of competitors, be prepared to provide a clear and compelling comparison. Highlight the unique features, quality, or additional services you offer that differentiate you from the competition. Emphasize why your pricing is justified based on the value and advantages they will receive compared to lesser-priced alternatives.

5. Use Negotiation Tactics

When encountering price objections, be open to negotiations to find a mutually beneficial solution. Consider offering limited-time discounts, bundling additional services, or providing extended payment terms. The key is to find a middle ground that satisfies both parties while still maintaining the profitability of your business.

By implementing these strategies and effectively addressing price concerns, you can overcome objections and close more sales. Remember to focus on the value your product or service brings to the prospect's business and how it aligns with their needs and goals.

Section 5: Highlighting Benefits and Solutions

In this section, we will explore various techniques that can help you effectively emphasize the benefits and solutions offered by your product or service, enabling you to overcome objections raised by potential customers.

Outline:

1. Understand Customer Concerns

2. Identify Benefits and Solutions

3. Tailor Your Message

4. Provide Social Proof

5. Offer Guarantees or Trials

6. Show Return on Investment (ROI)

7. Anticipate and Address Objections

8. Use Case Studies and Testimonials

9. Communicate Value Proposition Clearly

10. Use Visuals and Demonstrations

11. Ask Thought-Provoking Questions

12. Personalize the Sales Pitch

13. Follow Up and Follow Through

1. Understand Customer Concerns: Begin by thoroughly understanding the objections and concerns raised by potential customers. This will help you tailor your approach and effectively address their specific needs.

2. Identify Benefits and Solutions: Identify the unique benefits and solutions your product or service offers. Understanding these will enable you to highlight them strategically during the sales process.

3. Tailor Your Message: Customize your sales pitch and messaging to resonate with each potential customer individually. This personalization will demonstrate that you understand their needs and have the perfect solution for their specific challenges.

4. Provide Social Proof: Share success stories, testimonials, and case studies from satisfied customers who have already experienced the benefits of your product or service. This social proof will instill confidence in potential customers and alleviate their objections.

5. Offer Guarantees or Trials: To overcome objections related to risk or uncertainty, offer guarantees or trial periods. This allows potential customers to try your product or service with the assurance that they can opt out if it doesn't meet their expectations.

6. Show Return on Investment (ROI): Clearly demonstrate how your product or service can generate a positive return on investment for potential customers. This financial analysis will help them understand the long-term value and benefits they can gain from choosing your offering.

7. Anticipate and Address Objections: Proactively anticipate common objections and prepare compelling responses. By addressing objections before they arise, you can instill confidence in potential customers and overcome their concerns.

8. Use Case Studies and Testimonials: Share real-life examples of how your product or service has solved similar challenges for other customers. These case studies and testimonials serve as powerful tools to showcase the effectiveness of your solutions.

9. Communicate Value Proposition Clearly: Clearly communicate the unique value proposition of your product or service. By highlighting its key features and benefits, you can make it easier for potential customers to understand and appreciate what sets you apart from competitors.

10. Use Visuals and Demonstrations: Incorporate visuals and demonstrations into your sales pitch to make it more engaging and memorable. Visual aids can help potential customers better grasp the benefits and solutions you're offering.

11. Ask Thought-Provoking Questions: Engage potential customers by asking thought-provoking questions that prompt them to consider their challenges and the potential impact of your solutions. This approach encourages active participation and helps them realize the benefits of your offering.

12. Personalize the Sales Pitch: Tailor your sales pitch to the specific industry, company, or individual you are targeting. By demonstrating that you have taken the time to understand their unique circumstances, you enhance your credibility and increase the chances of overcoming objections.

13. Follow Up and Follow Through: After addressing objections and providing solutions, follow up with potential customers to ensure their concerns have been fully addressed. Maintaining ongoing communication and providing additional support can help build trust and ultimately secure the sale.

By implementing these techniques, you can effectively highlight the benefits and solutions offered by your product or service, leading to successful objection handling and increased sales.

Section 6: Handling Competitor Comparisons

In the sales process, it's common for potential buyers to compare different competitors before making a decision. This section will provide you with tactics and strategies for effectively handling objections related to competitors and showcasing your unique selling points.

Tactics for Handling Competitor Comparisons:


1. Understand the Competitor Landscape:


Before engaging in a conversation about competitors, it's important to have a clear understanding of the competitor landscape. Research each competitor's strengths and weaknesses and identify how your product or service differentiates itself from them.

2. Highlight Your Unique Selling Points:


Showcase the unique features, benefits, and value of your product or service that sets it apart from competitors. Clearly communicate how your offerings address the specific needs and pain points of potential buyers.

3. Focus on Customer Success Stories:


Share real-life examples and success stories of customers who have chosen your product or service over competitors. Highlight the positive outcomes they achieved and how your solution contributed to their success.

4. Address Specific Concerns:


Probe potential buyers to identify their specific concerns or objections regarding competitors. Address these concerns head-on by providing factual information, data, or testimonials that showcase why your solution is a better fit for their needs.

5. Offer Comparative Analysis:


If the potential buyer requests a direct comparison with a specific competitor, provide a fair and balanced comparative analysis. Highlight the advantages and disadvantages of each solution, emphasizing why your product or service offers a superior value proposition.


By implementing these tactics, you can effectively handle objections related to competitors and confidently showcase your unique selling points, increasing the chances of converting potential buyers into customers.

Section 7: Providing Social Proof

Social proof is a powerful tool in the sales process that can help alleviate objections and build trust with potential customers. By showcasing satisfied customers or testimonials, you can provide evidence of your product or service's value and reliability. This section will explain the concept of social proof and how you can effectively use it to overcome objections and close more sales.

1. What is Social Proof?

Social proof is the psychological phenomenon where people assume the actions or choices of others in an attempt to reflect correct behavior for a given situation. In the context of sales, social proof refers to providing evidence that your product or service has been successful for others, thereby influencing potential customers to trust and favor your offering.

2. The Power of Testimonials

Testimonials are a common form of social proof that can have a significant impact on potential customers. They are statements or narratives from satisfied customers who have experienced positive results or benefits from using your product or service. Testimonials humanize your brand and provide real-world examples of how your offering has helped others.

3. Showcasing Satisfied Customers

One effective way to utilize social proof is by showcasing satisfied customers. You can feature testimonials on your website, social media platforms, or marketing materials. Additionally, you can use case studies or success stories that highlight specific customer journeys and the positive outcomes they achieved with your product or service.

4. Leveraging Metrics and Data

Another form of social proof is leveraging metrics and data to demonstrate the success of your product or service. This can include sharing statistics on the number of customers served, revenue generated, or any other relevant data that showcases the size and impact of your customer base.

5. Influencer Endorsements

Another powerful form of social proof is leveraging influencer endorsements. Influencers are individuals with a strong online presence and a large following in your target market. By partnering with influencers and having them endorse your product or service, you can tap into their credibility and reach to gain the trust of potential customers.

6. Customer Reviews and Ratings

Customer reviews and ratings on platforms like Google, Yelp, or industry-specific review websites can also serve as social proof. Positive reviews and high ratings indicate that your product or service is well-regarded by others in the market, providing reassurance and confidence to potential customers.

Overall, social proof is a powerful tool to overcome objections in the sales process. By showcasing satisfied customers, leveraging testimonials, metrics, influencer endorsements, and customer reviews, you can build trust, alleviate doubts, and increase the likelihood of closing a sale.

Section 8: Offering Flexible Options

One of the key strategies in overcoming objections during the sales process is providing flexible options to address specific needs or requirements of potential customers. This section will discuss the importance of offering flexibility and how it can help overcome objections more effectively.

1. Understanding Different Needs and Requirements

Every customer has unique needs and requirements when it comes to making a purchasing decision. By taking the time to understand these individual needs, sales professionals can tailor their offerings and present flexible options that meet specific requirements. This shows the customer that their concerns are being addressed directly and increases the chances of overcoming objections.

2. Customizing Solutions

Providing flexible options means being able to customize solutions based on customer preferences. This could involve offering different pricing packages, bundling products or services, or adjusting terms and conditions to better align with the customer's needs. By offering customization, sales professionals can demonstrate their willingness to accommodate specific requirements and show the value of their offering.

3. Offering Alternatives

Another way to provide flexibility is by offering alternative solutions that address the customer's concerns. If a prospect objects to a specific feature or aspect of the product or service, the salesperson can present alternative options that meet their requirements. This allows the customer to feel heard and encourages them to continue exploring the offering.

4. Demonstrating Value and ROI

When addressing objections related to cost or perceived value, offering flexible options becomes essential. Sales professionals can demonstrate the value and return on investment (ROI) of their offering by providing different pricing structures or offering additional benefits for a higher price. This helps to alleviate concerns and highlights the potential benefits of the product or service.

5. Building Trust and Relationships

By offering flexible options, sales professionals are able to build trust and develop stronger relationships with potential customers. When prospects feel that their needs are being heard and that the salesperson is willing to work with them to find a solution, it establishes a foundation of trust. This can lead to increased confidence in the product or service and a higher likelihood of closing the sale.

In conclusion, offering flexible options is crucial for overcoming objections in the sales process. It allows sales professionals to address specific needs and requirements, customize solutions, provide alternatives, demonstrate value, and build trust with potential customers. By incorporating flexibility into their sales approach, businesses can increase their chances of closing deals and satisfying their customers.

Section 9: Reassuring with Guarantees

In the sales process, objections often arise when prospects express concerns or doubts about the product or service being offered. One effective way to address these objections and provide reassurance is by offering guarantees or warranties. Guarantees act as a promise to the customer that they will receive certain benefits or outcomes from their purchase, or that their investment will be protected in some way.

Outlined below are key points on how guarantees or warranties can help overcome objections and provide reassurance to prospects:

1. Addressing risk

One common objection from prospects is the fear of making a wrong decision or wasting their money. By offering a guarantee or warranty, you can mitigate this risk and give them confidence in their purchase. Assure them that if they are not satisfied or if the product doesn't meet their expectations, they can get a refund, replacement, or other suitable solution.

2. Demonstrating confidence in the product

Guarantees and warranties show that you believe in the quality and effectiveness of your product or service. When prospects see that you are willing to stand behind your offering and assume responsibility if it doesn't meet their needs, it instills trust and confidence in your brand.

3. Building credibility

By providing guarantees, you demonstrate your commitment to customer satisfaction. This builds credibility and differentiates your company from competitors who may not offer similar reassurances. Prospects are more likely to trust and choose a provider who is willing to back their claims with guarantees.

4. Overcoming objections related to value

Some objections may arise from prospects who question whether the product or service is worth the investment. Offering a guarantee or warranty can help address these concerns by emphasizing the value they will receive. Show them that if they are not satisfied with the results or benefits, they can obtain a refund or solution, thereby reducing the perceived risk.

5. Creating a competitive advantage

Guarantees or warranties can be a powerful differentiator in the marketplace. When prospects compare your offering with others, they may be more inclined to choose a company that offers additional reassurances. Use your guarantees as a selling point to highlight the added value and peace of mind that prospects will have by choosing your product or service.

In conclusion, guarantees and warranties play a crucial role in overcoming objections and providing reassurance to prospects. By addressing risk, demonstrating confidence, building credibility, overcoming objections related to value, and creating a competitive advantage, you can effectively address concerns and persuade prospects to choose your offering.

Section 10: Closing with Confidence

In this section, we will provide you with valuable tips on how to confidently close the sales process after successfully addressing objections. By implementing these strategies, you will be able to secure a deal and ensure a positive outcome for both you and your potential customer.

1. Understand the Customer's Needs

Before moving towards the closing stage, it is crucial to have a deep understanding of your customer's needs and desires. By actively listening and asking relevant questions, you can demonstrate that you genuinely care about helping them find the right solution.

2. Reiterate the Value Proposition

Remind the customer of the unique value your product or service offers. Emphasize the benefits they will receive and how it will address their pain points. By reinforcing the value proposition, you can reignite their excitement and motivation to proceed with the purchase.

3. Address Any Remaining Concerns

Even after overcoming objections earlier in the sales process, there might still be some lingering concerns. Take the time to address these remaining doubts and provide any additional information or reassurance that is necessary. This will help build trust and further solidify their decision to move forward.

4. Offer Incentives

Consider offering incentives to incentivize the customer to close the deal. This could include discounts, extended warranties, or special bonuses. By providing extra value, you can create a sense of urgency and encourage the customer to make a favorable decision.

5. Propose a Clear Next Step

Guide the customer towards the next step in the process by clearly outlining the actions they need to take. This could be signing a contract, setting up a trial period, or scheduling a follow-up call. By providing a clear path forward, you make it easier for the customer to make a decision and transition smoothly to the next phase.

6. Assume the Sale

Show confidence in your product and your ability to meet the customer's needs. Use assumptive language and statements that imply the sale has already been made. This can help create a positive mindset and increase the likelihood of a successful closing.

By following these strategies, you will be better equipped to confidently close the sales process and secure the deal. Remember that each customer is unique, so adapt these techniques to suit their specific requirements and preferences.

If you would like to learn more about our sales intelligence solutions that can help you overcome objections and close deals more effectively, please contact us or visit our website.

Conclusion

The strategies discussed in this article are essential for overcoming objections in the sales process. By implementing these strategies, sales professionals can address customers' concerns and build trust, leading to increased sales success. It is crucial for readers to start applying these strategies in their own sales processes to enhance their effectiveness and achieve better results.

Selling Signals content and product recommendations are editorially independent. We may make money when you click on links to our partners. Learn More.
Sales objections are concerns your leads, prospects, or customers bring up throughout the sales process that express a hesitancy to move forward with a deal. Salespeople give rebuttals, or strategic responses, to overcome sales objections, which typically stem from pricing, priority, lack of knowledge, timing, and/or irritation. At each step in the sales process, there are common sales objections that you can prepare for by creating and documenting effective rebuttals.
We’ll cover common objections throughout the sales process and the best rebuttals, including:
Lead Generation Objections & Rebuttals: Objections that come up while you’re prospecting and attracting leads. Read more below.
Lead Nurturing Objections & Rebuttals: Those your lead expresses while you’re qualifying and scoring them. Read more below.
Deal-Closing Objections & Rebuttals: Those that arise when you’re trying to guide a prospect toward the sale. Read more below.
Post-Sale Objections & Rebuttals: Objections stated by the prospect after they’ve purchased your product or service. Read more below.
Because there are common sales objections you'll hear at specific points along your sales process, we recommend identifying them and crafting ready-made rebuttals you can tailor to your audience. Before reading our list of most common sales objections and best sales rebuttals, take a look at our free objections and rebuttals script below:
Free Objections & Rebuttals Script
We created a free objection handling script with verbiage that you can use for any objection you come across. The script is easy to customize and comes with blanks you can fill in to tailor to your unique situation. To learn more about using the script as part of the objection handling process as a whole, read our ultimate guide on objection handling — there, you’ll discover information about the main causes of objections and how to overcome each with tailored techniques.
Get FREE Objection Handling Script
Lead Generation Sales Objections & Rebuttals
Sales reps that handle sales prospecting hear many different objections throughout. When cold calling, emailing, and canvassing, many leads will be ready to get you off the phone before they even know what it is you offer. Most objections you'll hear will come from irritated leads, those who lack the time or reason to speak with you, or who have little understanding. Below are the most common objections you’ll hear during lead generation, and the best ways to answer them.
1. “Not Interested”
Sales Objection Type: Irritation
Sales reps often hear the objection “not interested” when they’re cold calling. It often comes early in the call before the rep has even had a chance to make their elevator pitch — as soon as the irritated lead smells a sales call.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To diffuse this irritation, first tell them you understand they’re likely annoyed that they’re receiving calls when they’re busy, then ask for a minute to explain why you’re calling. If this objection came after your pitch, ask what they find uninteresting so you can be targeted and reverse that feeling.
Here are some ways cold calling reps can respond to the “not interested” objection: 
Show More >>
2. "Where’d You Get My Information?"
Sales Objection Type: Irritation
It’s often an underlying frustration with cold callers and emailers that fuels the aggressive objection of “Where’d you get my info?” Leads are expressing that they don’t know you and didn’t ask to be contacted by you. Other times, you’ll encounter this when following up with an inbound lead who simply forgot they’d submitted an online form and gave you the information.
Example Sales Rebuttals
The best remedy is an honest answer to their question, followed by a hint at your value proposition. This will set them at ease and pique their interest. On the other hand, if the lead has given you their contact information in an opt-in form, simply remind them and ask about their experience with the lead magnet, thereby getting rid of their lack of knowledge and forming rapport. 
Here are some rebuttals for the “Where’d you get my information” sales objection: 
Show More >>
3. "Why Are You Calling Me?"
Sales Objection Type: Irritation
If a lead asks why you’re calling them, it’s likely because they’re annoyed and don’t want to talk to someone trying to sell them something. They also likely feel like they’re part of an indiscriminate list of names.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To alleviate this irritation, make the lead understand that you’re not just calling them on a whim, but are specifically interested in talking to them because they fit your target audience’s profile in some way. This can make them feel like you might actually have something they’ll find valuable. For example, mentioning a common pain point held by other people similar to the lead is always a good way to win their favor, even if they don’t have that exact pain point.
Here are some rebuttals to this common cold calling sales objection: 
Show More >>
4. "I Don’t Have Time"
Sales Objection Type: Time
Sometimes when contacting a lead for the first time, they’ll tell you they don’t have time to speak with you or learn about your offer. Bad timing is likely causing this reaction. Perhaps they’re busy at the moment you cold called. However, it could also be a matter of priority. They might think talking to you is less important than doing their work or scrolling through LinkedIn.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To overcome this objection, tell the lead you understand they can’t talk right now, and then ask for a different time frame when they might be more available. This takes care of the timing issue. To also attend to any priority problems, consider hinting at your value proposition so they know why they should make time for you. 
Here are some example rebuttals for the “I don’t have time” sales objection:
Show More >>
5. "Can’t You Just Send Me Something?"
Sales Objection Type: Time
This objection is most common during cold calls and is usually due to a lack of time to hear your pitch. The lead is asking you to send something in an effort to get you off the phone, or, in some instances, to actually learn about your solution — that is, on their own time.
Example Sales Rebuttals
Whether it’s a lack of time, or irritation masquerading as it, the best approach to overcoming this objection is asking what the lead wants to learn more about, agreeing to email some resources to them, and lastly, scheduling time for you to call back and hear their thoughts about the resource. This should get you another meeting on the calendar. 
Here are three rebuttals for dealing with this objection: 
Show More >>
6. "I’m Not the One Making Purchasing Decisions"
Sales Objection Type: Priority 
Sometimes you end up pitching to somebody who isn’t a decision maker — this especially happens on cold calls — and they let you know that they can’t personally choose whether to purchase your product. They have to talk to someone else, and perhaps are hesitant to start that conversation with a higher-up because they don’t yet see your product as necessary, and so they don’t want to waste their manager’s time.
Example Sales Rebuttals
The goal here is to get on the phone with a decision maker, or at least figure out how to do so. Ask the person who is in charge of these decisions and ask if they’ll connect you with them. If they don’t want to, you’re going to have to sell them a bit harder. Focus on how it’ll benefit both their manager and them. If it was a property manager, you might say it’ll help you do move-out inspections more quickly, and it’ll help the VP double the buildings they manage this year.
Here are some responses you can use to overcome this objection: 
Show More >>
7. "I Don’t Understand the Product"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
When you hear this objection, you have to fill in the lead’s limited understanding. The lead obviously missed something important, either during a pitch, presentation, or their own research. They therefore desire further explanation.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To overcome this objection, first figure out exactly what they want to know more about. Is it the whole product or a specific feature? Then, explain the product or feature in a different way than the first time. Tell them what it is and what it’s designed to do in clear language. Also, consider sharing use cases to help them visualize how they’d use it.
Below are some rebuttals for overcoming the “I don’t understand” objection:
Show More >>
8. "I Already Have a Provider"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
During a cold call or sales call, your lead may express that they already get something similar from another provider. This could be due to a lack of awareness. Sometimes you’ll find that the lead’s provider actually serves a different need than your product or service, and the lead is just unclear about the difference. On the other hand, they might actually have someone doing it for them — a trickier type of objection to overcome, but doable.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To deal with this objection, first gather a bit more information, as opposed to immediately countering what they’re saying. Once you know what you’re up against, you can give your unique selling proposition and more information that elevates your business above their current provider and fills the lead’s lack of knowledge. If you find that they’re just confused about how you fill a different need than their current provider, explain the difference. 
Here are some ways to rebut this objection: 
Show More >>
9. "I’m Not Comfortable Giving More Information"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
Salespeople are encouraged to get every form of contact possible from their leads during cold calls. Sometimes this makes leads uncomfortable, and, because of a lack of know-how about your intentions, they object.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To overcome their hesitation, acknowledge their concern and tell them what you’ll do with the info and why it will benefit them. This is meant to put the lead at ease by engendering in them feelings of self-interest, or even empathy. If they see that collecting their data will help them, or businesses like them, they’ll be more understanding. 
Here are some ways to overcome this objection: 
Show More >>
Lead Nurturing Sales Objections & Rebuttals
Lead nurturing involves a lot of relationship building and guidance from a sales rep, so many common sales objections pop up during this process. The objections you might hear in this stage are around priority and lack of knowledge about the value of your product or service. When nurturing leads, you can solve many of the objections with some product information or with questions that help you learn more about the lead’s interest level and pain points.
10. "I’m Not Ready to Buy"
Sales Objection Type: Priority
When a lead says they aren’t ready to buy, it’s often because they don’t prioritize the purchase. There’s likely something else they’d rather be spending their money or time on, whether that’s a competing investment or some internal project.
Example Sales Rebuttals
In this case, you first need to figure out why the lead is dragging their feet on this venture. After you’ve figured out what they’re prioritizing, or why they think they can wait, create a sense of urgency that inspires them to move this project up on their list of things to do. Mention an opportunity they’re missing or a way they’ll benefit from planting the seed now.  
Here are some ways to get past the “I’m not ready to buy” objection: 
Show More >>
11. "I Don’t Have the Money Right Now"
Sales Objection Type: Priority
This objection is a more specific version of the last, and it shows a more quantitative concern from the lead. In most cases, the lead has the money available, but might be allocating it to something else they prioritize over your offer.
Example Sales Rebuttals
A quantitative concern can easily be rebutted with a straightforward, quantitative answer. The idea is to stress the time or money that they save by buying sooner. This can help them see why prioritizing your solution in their budget is worthwhile. If they seriously lack the finances to go forward with your solution, that’s another story. Perhaps you have a more affordable option or payment plan you can offer them that will still relieve their major pain point. 
Here are some rebuttals to “I don’t have the money right now”:
Show More >>
12. "I Don’t See a Need Right Now"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
This sales objection differs slightly from the last, because it’s a signal that the lead may not even be considering a purchase at the moment. Instead of saying they aren’t ready to buy yet, they are saying they don’t even see a reason to buy yet. This is because they lack understanding about the value of your solution.
Example Sales Rebuttals
The rebuttals to this objection should be more focused on discussing their pain point and highlighting the costs of letting it go unsolved. It’s like a dentist telling a patient the side effects of not getting their tooth pulled ASAP — rot, pain, and all the other unsavory outcomes. You could also help them visualize the benefits they’ll miss out on by waiting to act. For instance, a stockbroker might say “buy now when the market’s low or you’ll miss out.” 
Here is some verbiage for overcoming this objection:
Show More >>
13. "I Found Another Product I Like More"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
If the lead has heard from you, they’ve probably heard from other providers in your market. So, there’s a chance that they’re going to get sold on another product before yours. While turning this around can be difficult, it also tells you that they’re ready to buy. They just need a bit more information in regards to why yours is a better choice.
Example Sales Rebuttals
First, figure out what they like about the other solution, and then start selling them on why yours is better for what they need, thereby filling their incomplete knowledge. Never disparage the other product or service. That will come across as an insult to their intelligence and judgment. Instead, focus on how your solution is better suited to their specific needs, providing them with information that can help them see what the competing sales rep might’ve left out.
Here are some rebuttals to use when a lead says “I found another product I like more”:
Show More >>
14. "I Found a Cheaper Product"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
When a lead mentions that they’re looking into another product because it’s cheaper, you have identified what sets the other product apart. Usually, they make the objection because they have little or no understanding of the value in your solution that justifies the higher price.
Example Sales Rebuttals
Lean into your unique selling proposition to overcome this objection. Show them why your product is worth its higher price, and give them some reasons why the competitor might be able to charge a lower rate. Make sure these reasons will be unappealing to the customer. If the customer values customer service, and you know the competitor doesn’t offer much of it, use that as a reason. 
For example, try one of the rebuttals below:
Show More >>
15. "I Saw Some Bad Reviews"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
Sometimes a prospect will become concerned about your business after seeing a few bad reviews. With no side of the story except the customer’s, the prospect might take the review as truth. They therefore hold a misconception about your business you must correct.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To overcome this objection, first figure out what review they saw that unsettled them. Then address their lack of knowledge by explaining the cause of that bad review. Perhaps it was from an unfair customer or about a problem you’ve fixed in your updated product or service. Lastly, explain why it won’t happen to this new lead. 
Here are some things to say to beat this sales objection:
Show More >>
Deal-Closing Sales Objections & Rebuttals
The objections you hear can change once final numbers are brought out and it’s time to close the deal. Once your prospects see the line-by-line breakdown, in many industries, some serious concerns arise, especially about pricing and terms of the agreement. It’s natural for your lead to have questions about pricing details due to their lack of knowledge of industry standards. These are to be expected, and below we’ll show you how to answer them.
16. "Your Product Is Too Expensive"
Sales Objection Type: Pricing
Once a prospect sees the final cost of your product or service, they may be dissatisfied with it. Most pricing objections arise because the prospect cannot clearly see how your solution is valuable to them. They might’ve forgotten how much they need a solution to their problem, or just lack enough proof of results.
Example Sales Rebuttals
Focus on explaining why the product or service is worth the price. Quantitative estimates and case studies are effective ways to show just how much the solution will benefit the buyer, both in the short and long term. Sometimes telling a story about a customer who held the same feelings, but over time was amazed by the results, is a good way to alleviate their pricing concerns. 
Below are some methods for overcoming this sales objection:
Show More >>
17. "Why Did You Add That?"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
Many industries have required taxes and/or industry-standard fees that are added during the closing process. When a prospect sees this additional fee on the contract, they might become confused and therefore object because of their limited understanding.
Example Sales Rebuttals
Your rebuttal should focus on stressing the fact that these fees are required or common throughout the industry. Also, be sure to explain why the fee helps you better serve them. If your prospect is continuing to push back on the fee, you can use it as a bargaining chip and make a trade for something you might want. For instance, if they’re on monthly billing and you want them to pay in full for the year, you could offer to waive the fee if they agree to do so. 
Below are some ways to overcome this objection:
Show More >>
18. "Another Provider Offered Me a Better Deal" (Without Proof)
Sales Objection Type: Pricing
This is a common objection used to get a lower price during the closing process. It’s usually pricing concerns causing this objection. They’re trying to figure out how to get you to lower your price.
Example Sales Rebuttals
The rule of thumb for forming these objections is simple: If they don’t have proof in hand, it’s not your responsibility to take them at their word. Be careful not to tell them that you think they’re lying to you, or that they could lie to you. Focus instead on stressing that you can’t consider an offer that you haven’t seen, or asking them why they didn’t take the better deal when they got it.
Below are some phrases to use to overcome the sales objection:
Show More >>
19. "Another Provider Offered Me a Better Deal" (With Proof)
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
This objection occurs when a prospect has found a better price with a competitor and has proof to back up their claim. Usually, the reason they’re objecting is due to being uneducated around your product or service. They just don’t see how your solution is a better choice when it has a higher price tag.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To overcome this sales objection, give the same rebuttals as the “I Found a Cheaper Product” ones above, after figuring out the name of the competitor. Emphasize what your product brings to the table that makes it worth more money. For instance, show them features that matter to the lead but that the competitor lacks. This will bridge their gap in knowledge causing the objection. 
Again, below are the phrases to use to rebut this objection:
Show More >>
20. "Why Would I Need a Warranty?"
Sales Objection Type: Lack of Knowledge
If you’re in an industry that offers a product warranty, customers will often try to flip your offer into an objection to shut the idea down. Their problem usually isn’t with your reliability, but with the idea of paying extra for a warranty. This is because they are unaware of its purpose.
Example Sales Rebuttals
To rebut this objection, focus on the value that the warranty brings, while also assuaging any new concerns about the longevity of the product. If they’re concerned about the product breaking, explain to them that this is extremely rare. If the lead pushes back a lot and there is an option to go without a warranty, simply offer it to them. There’s no need to lose a deal over a disagreement regarding the value of a warranty.
Below are some ways to handle this objection:
Show More >>
Sales Objections & Rebuttals After the Sale
Objections don’t always end after the sale. Depending on your position, you may end up being the one to handle objections or concerns that pop up after the sale or between orders of a repeat-purchase product. Here are some of the common sales objections that take place after the initial sale that are usually born from irritation with results, and how to handle them.
21. "I’m Not Getting the Promised Results"
Sales Objection Type: Irritation
Prospects making this objection are simply discouraged with the service they’re receiving. Perhaps they’re not seeing the desired results, or one of your sales reps has given them unreachable expectations. Dealing with this objection well will help you maintain a customer.
Example Sales Rebuttals
Regardless of what you promised them, you have to stress in your rebuttal that your product is going to work differently depending on the situation, and that it can take time to see the full effect of what you sell to them. Then figure out their exact problem and offer ways to help them fix it. And, be empathetic and understanding in your phrasing and tone when dealing with this objection. This will help you dissipate any anger or resentment they might feel toward you. 
Below are some methods for overcoming this sales objection:
Show More >>
22. "I’m Not Buying From You Again"
Sales Objection Type: Irritation
This objection is caused by frustration, likely because the product or service hasn’t met the customer’s expectations or they had a bad experience with customer service. It’s very similar to the last objection, though a bit more hostile.
Example Sales Rebuttals
Overcome this objection by asking questions to figure out what exactly went wrong. Once you uncover their issue, you can express regret for its occurrence and offer a way to remedy the situation. Ideally, try to get some time on the phone to talk with them about the issue and solutions. This way you can make them view you as a human, and not just as some business they can easily write off as unsatisfactory. 
Here are the ways to react to this sales objection:
Show More >>
23. "I Want a Refund"
Sales Objection Type: Irritation
There are many legitimate reasons why a customer may want a refund, and if a product breaks and/or is covered by a warranty, then obviously you don’t need to worry about rebutting. This example is for those customers that are asking for a refund because they don’t like a product or service.
Example Sales Rebuttals
The strategy here is to give quality customer service and offer to educate the customer on how to get the most out of the product while showing you value them as a client. Be understanding and apologetic in order to ease any animosity they might be feeling toward your brand. 
Below are the best ways to respond to “I want a refund”:
Show More >>
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
What Is a Sales Objection?
A sales objection is a lead’s voiced hesitation or concern that impedes the forward progress of a sale. Examples could be as vague as “I’m not interested” and as specific as “I don’t like feature X.” Objections can occur anywhere in the sales process, from the first cold call to the contract review. And salespeople have to overcome them in order to save the sale and continue pushing it toward a close. They do this with sales rebuttals.
What Is a Sales Rebuttal?
A sales rebuttal is a strategic response to a sales objection that a salesperson says to the objecting lead in an effort to overcome the objection and move the deal forward. The ingredients of a good rebuttal are an acknowledgment of the objection, which makes the lead feel heard, and a fact-based reason why the objection may be unfounded. After hearing your rebuttal, the lead’s worry should dissipate, and they’ll be ready to move forward in the sale.
Bottom Line: Common Sales Objections & Rebuttals
All of these are objections that you’re likely to hear throughout your sales process, and we suggest you write down these examples to give yourself a head-start on your objection handling. The best way to ensure your rebuttals sound natural is to practice and roleplay them. As you gain more experience, you’ll come up with even more ways to handle some of these situations, but these should start you on the path of being a quality objection handler.

