What is personality?
Personality is unique to each person and represents a composite of the characteristics and temperament each person possesses. Personality is considered a collaboration or the sum of its parts. That entity (your personality) is what makes you distinct. In theory, there are as many personality types as there are people. However, packaging them into 16 personality types may make the broad concept of personality easier to investigate and understand.
The amay enjoy careers as models or travel influencers. 

Getty/Xavier Lorenzo
INTJ: Introverted, intuitive, thinking, and judging
INTJs are often considered intelligent, quiet, and reserved. They may make positive leaders but can also thrive without significant interpersonal contact. Their intuitive and thinking ways make INTJs independent thinkers with strong personal opinions. 
INTJs often possess a questioning nature and problem-solving skills when complex concepts are involved. However, they may ignore basic approaches and are more drawn toward convoluted solutions to problems. Their pronounced analytical skills often earn them the titles of "The Architect," "The Scientist," and "The Mastermind."
INTP: Introverted, intuitive, thinking, and perceiving
INTPs are logical and rational thinkers who take pride in their intellectual abilities. They are often driven to explore and build knowledge. In the company of others, they may come across as reserved, impersonal, hard to read, and lost in their heads. However, they may show passion and animation if they are passionate about a subject. Seen as "The Logician" and "The Thinker," INTPs may love patterns and designs and find common threads within complex theories or concepts. They are not often considered leaders or followers but may prefer to figure out challenges independently. 
ENTJ: Extroverted, intuitive, thinking, and judging
Often regarded as "The Commander" or "The Executive," individuals who display the ENTJ personality type often appear "larger than life" to those around them. They are strategic leaders, able to organize others and delegate duties to effect change and achieve objectives. Those around ENTJs may appreciate their "take charge" attitude, as tangible results may follow their lead. Getting the job done quickly and efficiently is often the primary focus of an ENTJ. As they go about this process, ENTJs may show less regard for interpersonal actions, such as thanking and congratulating others.
ENTP: Extroverted, intuitive, thinking, and perceiving
Standing up for what they believe in is one of the primary characteristics of ENTPs. These individuals are unafraid of questioning the status quo and often present arguments to support their viewpoint. They are also curious and innovative, intrinsically motivated to solve problems while challenging themselves and others. For these reasons, ENTPs become known as "The Debater," "The Visionary," or "The Advocate." They can present a mix of skepticism and optimism while being open-minded about all the possibilities. ENTPs often develop ideas and enthusiastically transmit these to others.
INFJ: Introverted, intuitive, feeling, and judging
INFJs are caring motivators focused on striving to actualize their vision of harmony for humanity. Although they are reserved, they may be positive and supportive listeners. INFJs are identified as sensitive to the emotions of others, with the ability to read people and situations clearly. Their genuine warmth and depth of caring can be evident to those close to them. While they may shy away from social attention, they can work behind the scenes to ensure all plans are met. An INFJ in love may act cautiously at first and give their all when they find an authentic connection.
INFP: Introverted, intuitive, feeling, and perceiving
Individuals with the INFP personality type are often considered imaginative idealists with a knack for finding creative solutions to problems. Normally quiet and sensitive, INFPs may hold their values dearly and become forceful and agitated in support of them. They are often described as idealistic perfectionists who think their solutions are the best for everyone. However, they can be sincere in caring for others, and those around them may readily sense it. 
INFPs tend to set high goals and can be rude to themselves for not attaining them. They are regarded as the "The Mediator," "The Healer," and "The Idealist" personality types in the archetype system. 
ENFJ: Extroverted, intuitive, feeling, and judging
"The Teacher," "The Protagonist Personality," and "The Giver" are the most common descriptions associated with those with an ENFJ personality type. These individuals are often considered natural-born leaders who thrive on inspiring others. ENFJs are people-focused, often showcasing significant interpersonal skills. They are confident and charismatic, which may cause others to be drawn to them and look to them for advice and direction. 
ENFJs can become too concerned about and involved in the issues other people face. They may benefit from downtime spent alone. However, their time alone may be spent harshly judging themselves for not doing more. For this reason, these individuals may benefit from healthy social boundaries. 
ENFP: Extroverted, intuitive, feeling, and perceiving
Individuals who have the ENFP personality type are often given the archetype labels of "The Champion," "The Campaigner," and "The Inspirer." They are project-oriented, bringing a wide range of skills and talents to any group they are a part of. 
ENFPs are also often considered genuinely warm. They may show an innate appreciation for the value interpersonal relationships bring to their growth. With their charming personalities, these free-spirited people may spread positive energy wherever they go. ENFPs may also possess a natural curiosity to seek out deeper meanings in the complexity of life.
Benefits of understanding your personality type 
Below are a few potential benefits of taking the MBTI and learning more about your personality type or archetype. 
You can learn your potential strengths and areas for growth 
Regardless of which of the 16 personality quiz outcomes apply to you, the MBTI can be an exercise in self-knowledge. You can use your results to better grasp your potential strengths and areas for growth. If you're unsure where to focus your energy on change, you can see what personality traits you might struggle with to strive for personal development. 
At work and in other areas of your life, you may be better able to identify situations where your strengths can make a positive impact. In the same way, you may recognize when a task provides the opportunity to strengthen one or more of your areas of growth. For example, in a group setting, you might offer to do the research part of the assignment if you know you wouldn't do as well as a group leader.  
You may become more aware of your likes and dislikes
Your preferences for certain situations could lie in your personality type. Perhaps you experience intense irritation when you see the toothpaste tube not squeezed from the bottom up. Maybe you feel joy after completing a cryptic crossword puzzle. Your personality type could explain these feelings. 
Knowing your personality type could also help you identify and cope with stressors. It allows you to understand why you react to some situations emotionally. You may also understand why you are drawn to certain people in love or friendships. This knowledge may influence your career path and how you show up socially. 
You may understand your career options 
Some people find that their career is one of the most fulfilling areas of their life. However, others may find that their career doesn't match their personality, desires, or dreams. When a mismatch occurs, they may not experience personal fulfillment. 
Knowledge of your personality type, strengths, weaknesses, and likes and dislikes can inform a decision about a career you'd like to have. If you are already in a career you enjoy, you may be better equipped to understand how to use your strengths to your company's advantage. 
You may hone your decision-making skills
When learning about the 16 personality types, you may notice that there are different mechanisms behind how people make decisions. Decision-making often determines the paths people take in their careers and personal lives. As you achieve more significant insight into yourself, you may start to make more balanced decisions, which could bring about positive life-changing consequences. These might include changing jobs, relocating to a new city or country, introducing intimacy into a relationship, getting married, or having children.
You may further appreciate the diversity of personalities
Exploring the 16 MBTI personality types may remind you of the diversity found in group settings. While conflicts may arise out of interpersonal differences, there is also the opportunity for each to shine based on the characteristics of their personality and the varying abilities they bring to the group. 
When you are aware of your personality type and how this differs from others, you become more appreciative of the positive contributions that anyone can make. It can also show you how to include others more in team decisions. For example, if you know other people might be introverted, you can consider calling on them to give them a cue to express their insights, which they may be hiding due to extroverted people dominating the conversation.
You may become more aware of how to improve your relationships
Although personalities may be categorized into 16 types, no two people with one personality type may be 100% the same. For this reason, there can be unique interactions between the personality types in relationships. Knowing your personality type may strengthen the relationship by consciously noting your partner's or friend's traits. It may also help you find relationships with people who complement you. For example, an extrovert might help an introvert come out of their shell, whereas an introvert may enjoy listening to the extrovert speak and appreciate their social nature at events. 

